TR(1)			    General Commands Manual			 TR(1)

NAME
     tr – translate characters

SYNOPSIS
     tr [-Ccsu] string1 string2
     tr [-Ccu] -d string1
     tr [-Ccu] -s string1
     tr [-Ccu] -ds string1 string2

DESCRIPTION
     The tr utility copies the standard input to the standard output with
     substitution or deletion of selected characters.

     The following options are available:

     -C      Complement the set of characters in string1, that is “-C ab”
	     includes every character except for ‘a’ and ‘b’.

     -c      Same as -C but complement the set of values in string1.

     -d      Delete characters in string1 from the input.

     -s      Squeeze multiple occurrences of the characters listed in the last
	     operand (either string1 or string2) in the input into a single
	     instance of the character.  This occurs after all deletion and
	     translation is completed.

     -u      Guarantee that any output is unbuffered.

     In the first synopsis form, the characters in string1 are translated into
     the characters in string2 where the first character in string1 is
     translated into the first character in string2 and so on.	If string1 is
     longer than string2, the last character found in string2 is duplicated
     until string1 is exhausted.

     In the second synopsis form, the characters in string1 are deleted from
     the input.

     In the third synopsis form, the characters in string1 are compressed as
     described for the -s option.

     In the fourth synopsis form, the characters in string1 are deleted from
     the input, and the characters in string2 are compressed as described for
     the -s option.

     The following conventions can be used in string1 and string2 to specify
     sets of characters:

     character	Any character not described by one of the following
		conventions represents itself.

     \octal	A backslash followed by 1, 2 or 3 octal digits represents a
		character with that encoded value.  To follow an octal
		sequence with a digit as a character, left zero-pad the octal
		sequence to the full 3 octal digits.

     
--- --help output ---
/usr/bin/tr: illegal option -- -
usage: tr [-Ccsu] string1 string2
       tr [-Ccu] -d string1
       tr [-Ccu] -s string1
       tr [-Ccu] -ds string1 string2
